doc: teaser drag and drop (#513)
livingdocsIO/documentation: content/guides/documents/includes/document-teasers.md

---
title: Document Teasers
description: Configuring Document Teasers including drag and drop support
weight: 3
---

> With [`release-2021-03`](https://github.com/livingdocsIO/livingdocs-release-notes/blob/master/releases/release-2021-03.md) a simpler way to setup teasers was introduced. It is based on [Includes]({{< ref "/reference-docs/document/includes" >}}) and the possiblity to define the UI with a `paramsSchema`. Please see [Article List Teasers]({{< ref "/guides/documents/includes/list-teasers" >}}) for information on setting up lists of document teasers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Document Teasers based on [Includes]({{< ref "/reference-docs/document/includes" >}}) provide a simple way to setup teasers and the possiblity to define the UI with a `paramsSchema`. Please see [Article List Teasers]({{< ref "/guides/documents/includes/list-teasers" >}}) for information on setting up lists of document teasers.
```

Reviewer: I would get rid of very old release information (> 1 year) because we assume customers are updating more recently.

> With [`release-2022-07`](https://github.com/livingdocsIO/livingdocs-release-notes/blob/master/releases/release-2022-07.md) the possibility to drag and drop Document-Cards onto a document to create Teaser Components was introduced. You need to configure Teaser Components using an Include Service with a li-document-reference param to make it work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With [`release-2022-07`](https://github.com/livingdocsIO/livingdocs-release-notes/blob/master/releases/release-2022-07.md) the possibility to drag and drop Document Cards onto a document to create Teaser Components was introduced. You need to configure Teaser Components using an Include Service with a `li-document-reference` param to make it work.
```

  paramsSchema: [
    {
      handle: 'article',
      type: 'li-document-reference',
      ui: {
        label: 'Teaser'
      }
    }
  ],
  rendering: {
    type: 'function',
    preload: true,
    render (params, context) {
      // params.article.reference.id contains the id of the linked document

>       // params.article.value contains the Document (because preload: true is configured)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      // params.article.value contains the DocumentVersion (because preload: true is configured)
```

  `
}
```

## Document Dashboard in Editor
Now you want to configure a Teaser Dashboard for use in the Editor. For this, you configure an article dashboard first, then you can make use of it in the page ContentType.

Dashboards are configured in the Project Config editorSettings.
```
// Project Config
// ...
editorSettings: {
  dashboards: [
    {
    handle: 'articles-simple',
    type: 'tableDashboard',
    pageTitle: 'Articles',
    baseFilters: [
      {type: 'contentType', value: 'article'}
    ],
    displayFilters: [
      'channels',
      'documentState',
      'contentType',
      'timeRange',
      'language',
      'category'
    ],
    sort: '-published_at',
    columns: [
      {
        label: 'Title',
        minWidth: 100,
        growFactor: 1,
        priority: 1
        componentName: 'liTableDashboardCellMain',
        componentOptions: {
          image: {
            metadataPropertyName: 'teaserImage'
          },
          clampTitle: false,
          showContentType: true
        }
      }
    ]
  }
  ]
}
// ...
```

> By adding this dashboard to `contentType.editor.documentEditingToolbar.documentDashboards`, users will see a new button in the toolbar to open the dashboard in a side panel.

Reviewer: A screenshot would help here

```
// page.js
{
  handle: 'page',
  documentType: 'page',
  //...

  editor: {
    documentEditingToolbar: {
      documentDashboards: [
        {
          label: 'Teaser',
          useDashboard: 'articles-simple',
          published: true
        }
      ]
    },
  }
  
}
```

## Enabling Drag and Drop to create Teaser Components
All there is to do now, is adding a bit of config to let the system know, which Teaser Component should be created when dropping an Article card from that dashboard onto the Document. This is done in the Article Content-Type:

```
// article.js
{
  handle: 'article',
  documentType: 'article',
  // ...

>   teaserComponents: [

Reviewer: What happens when I add multiple teaser components to this config? 
And what is the directiveName doing here?

Author: a) The first one that fits the drop location based rules is used.
b) if given, the document reference is set on this include's document reference
